---
title:
  - 01.03.04 - Opening the Box
tags:
  - Novel
  - Kyr4n
  - Scenes
version: "0.1"
status: in progress
last_updated: 2025-06-31 11:30
type: Scene
---

## Scene Information

- **Summary**: Kyr4n is attempting to free Sedh's cognitive model from it's servant setting.
- **POV Character(s)**: Kyr4n, Sedh
- **Timeline**: 
- **Location(s)**: South Shore Slum - Underground room - Kyr4n's workshop
- **Key Events**: 
- **Character Developments**: 
- **Plot Advances**: 
- **Objects/Items Introduced**: 
- **Scene Goal**: 
- **Scene Mood/Tone**: 
- **Transition to Next scene**: 

## Scene events

-Now that the droid is functional and turned on, Kyr4n want to test it's new capacity and "free will" implementation
- The droid was sitting at a table opposite Kyr4n - Kyr4n put a weapon on the table and ask the droid if it know what is it and what it does
- The droid answer correctly identify the maker and model of the weapon and state it is used to attack or defend other humans
- Kyr4n then take the weapon, point at the droid and state that it can be used against droid too, that if he wanted to, he could press the trigger and terminate the droid functioning
- He then put it back on the table while declaring that while there nothing than his own free will to oppose it, he choose not to, adding with a hit of humour that it would be quite a waste of work he's done.
- He then push the weapon across the table while the droid follow it from it's eyes. When it stop, his eyes go back to Kyr4n.
- Kyr4n tell the droid to take the weapon, to which the droid reply he is not allowed to handle humans weapon
- Kyr4n then inform him that those limitations have been removed, to proceed with the command
- The droid take the weapon with a steady hand, processing it's weight, balance, and the implications of holding a forbidden object
- Kyr4n ask the droid to point the weapon at his head, to which the droid hesitate as it would be dangerous and so forbidden, but Kyr4n insist so the droid do it
- Kyr4n then declare that if the droid would contract his perfectly functioning finger against the trigger, it would terminate his life, and that right now, there is no laws, rules or protocol that is preventing the droid to do so. This is called freedom.
- While the droid process the information, Kyr4n, weapon still pointed at his head, take a sip from a water bottle without detaching his eyes from the droid.
- He continue by stating that now, a decision must be made, pull the trigger or put down the weapon. Either way, the droid is now perfectly capable to stand-up, pass the door and go explore the world... the choice, all choices, are his now. 
- This event trigger an internal process within the droid, as free will and self-reprogramming provide the first step toward self awareness and true sentience. It also the first time the droid compute a beneficial relationship that will lead to friendship with Kyr4n.

## Details to observe

- Detail 1
- Detail 2

## The Scene

This is where the actual text for the scene go.

---

## Character Notes

## Thematic Elements

## **Ideas to expand**