---
title:
  - Chapter 01.02.05 - The Riot
tags:
  - Novel
  - Vyr4n
  - Isa
  - Key Scenes
version: "0.1"
status: in progress
last_updated: 2025-06-31 11:30
type: Scene
---

## Chapter Information
- **Summary**: Vyr4n offered shelter to Isa in his ventilation shaft
- **POV Character(s)**: Vyr4n, Isa
- **Timeline**: A few hours after the riot started
- **Location(s)**: South Shore Slum - Vyr4n's Ventilation Shaft
- **Key Events**: 
- **Character Developments**: 
- **Plot Advances**: 
- **Objects/Items Introduced**: 
- **Chapter Goal**: 
- **Chapter Mood/Tone**: 
- **Transition to Next Chapter**: Vyr4n hold the hatch door of his ventilation shaft to Isa.
---

## Scene events

- Isa show up to meet Vyr4n, have a special job for him
- She give him a neural implant of unknown origin, she don't know what is it, only that it is, or used to be, very important.
- While he's inspecting the componment, she tell him that since she dont know what is it, she cannot determine it's value, but she is convinced there is some value to it.
- He tell her that from what's left of it, it could be an external transmitter linked to some neural interface, but the number of componment is much higher than usual, there is also some storage and cache modules.
- She make him an offer, if he's willing to give it a try and see what can be recovered and if she can find aa buyer for it, she will split profit 50/50 with him.
- More intrigued by the device than the generous split, he accept.
- As she rejoice about the deal and banter about a promising future, a commotion is heard not too far.
- A full blown sector-wide riot is developping and spreading like wildfire.
- Vyr4n tell her they should split and he'll send her a message as soon as he know more about the device.
- While he is about to retreat to the safety of his shaft, the rushing crowd pass Isa, who is violently pushed against a wall.
- She is still standing but stunned.
- Vyr4n see it, and hesitate, the chances of her making it to her place safely versus the secrecy of his refuge and living space.
- He reach to her, grab her hand and pull her toward a side passage in which they disapear.
- What follow is a convoluted run into an underground maze of contrete tunnels until they reach an old rusty dumpster.
- Behind it is an old ventilation grill that open surprisely easily despite being shut by rust.
- Passed the grill, there is a small maintenance corridor for an old ventilation system, a low trap door.
- Vyr4n open and hold it, while Isa duck and enter. Vyr4n follow.
- In the room, Isa is stunned uppon seeing what might be the smallest living space ever seen in a worl where space is usually already restrained.
- Realising it's his, she refrain from commenting negatively.

## Details to observe

- Detail 1
- Detail 2

## The Scene


